Jenkins.io - Create blog post for Java 17 transition (#6562)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2023/07/31/2023-07-31-documentation-transition-to-java-17.adoc

---
layout: post
title: Java 17 usage in Jenkins.io Documentation
tags:
- java
- linux
- jenkins
- documentation
authors:
- kmartens27
opengraph:
  image: /images/post-images/2023/07/28/jenkins-supports-java-17.png
links:
discourse: true
---

image:/images/post-images/2023/07/28/jenkins-supports-java-17.png[Jenkins supports Java 17., 600]

> Jenkins has fully supported Java 17 since the weekly release of 2.357 and Long Term Support release of 2.361.1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jenkins has fully supported Java 17 since the 2.357 weekly release and 2.361.1 Long Term Support release.
```

For this reason, we have transitioned to using Java 17 in the Jenkins user handbook.
This includes the link:/doc/book/installing/[installation guides], link:/doc/book/pipeline/[Pipeline documentation], and link:/doc/book/pipeline/syntax/[Pipeline syntax].
Refer to the link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/issues/6310[GitHub issue] for additional information and insight.

== Background

> Debian 12 was released on June 10, 2023 and no longer delivers OpenJDK 11.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Debian 12 was released on June 10, 2023, and it no longer delivers OpenJDK 11.
```

> Due to this change in how Debian is delivered, we have transitioned to using Java 17 in the documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to this change in Debian, we have transitioned to using Java 17 in the documentation.
```

> The idea is that this will encourage users to upgrade to Java 17, which has been fully supported since September 2022.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The idea is this will encourage users to upgrade to Java 17, which has been fully supported since September 2022.
```

> This is also intended to prevent confusion or frustration for users trying to follow installation and usage guides.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Aligning with the actively supported Java version will also help prevent user confusion or frustration when trying to follow installation and usage guides.
```

> == The advantages of Java 17

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Advantages of Java 17
```

Java 17 improves upon Java 11 by including several new features that were not previously available.
Java 17 provides more functional testing and tools to help users improve their workflow and capabilities.

> Features such as link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/text-blocks/index.html[text blocks], link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/406[pattern matching for switch expressions], link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/409[sealed classes], link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/jdk.incubator.foreign/jdk/incubator/foreign/package-summary.html[foreign memory access], link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/java.base/java/time/Period.html[day period support], and link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/java.base/java/text/CompactNumberFormat.html[compact number formatting support] provide more extensive development options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Including features that provide more extensive development options, such as:

* link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/text-blocks/index.html[Text blocks]
* link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/406[Pattern matching for switch expressions]
* link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/409[Sealed classes]
* link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/jdk.incubator.foreign/jdk/incubator/foreign/package-summary.html[Foreign memory access]
* link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/java.base/java/time/Period.html[Day period support]
* link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/java.base/java/text/CompactNumberFormat.html[Compact number formatting support]
```

Read more about these features and how they can be used in the link:https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase/17-relnote-issues.html[Java 17 release notes].

== Upgrading your Java version

> While updating the documentation to reflect the Java 17 support, we have also added instructions on link:https://www.jenkins.io/doc/administration/requirements/upgrade-java-to-17/[upgrading Jenkins' Java version from 11 to Java 17].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While updating the documentation to reflect Java 17 support, we also added instructions on link:https://www.jenkins.io/doc/administration/requirements/upgrade-java-to-17/[upgrading Jenkins' Java version from 11 to Java 17].
```

> This page includes a video walkthrough created by author:darinpope[Darin Pope], that guides users through the process of upgrading the Java version for Jenkins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page includes a video walkthrough created by author:darinpope[Darin Pope] that guides users through the process of upgrading the Java version for Jenkins.
```

> As always, make sure you update all installed plugins prior to _and_ after updating Jenkins in any way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As always, update all installed plugins prior to _and_ after updating Jenkins in any way.
```

> This ensures that plugins are up to date and compatible with the changes being made.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This ensures up-to-date plugins that remain compatible.
```

- documentation
authors:
- kmartens27
opengraph:
  image: /images/post-images/2023/07/28/jenkins-supports-java-17.png
links:
discourse: true
---

image:/images/post-images/2023/07/28/jenkins-supports-java-17.png[Jenkins supports Java 17., 600]

Jenkins has fully supported Java 17 since the 2.357 weekly release and 2.361.1 Long Term Support release.
For this reason, we have transitioned to using Java 17 in the Jenkins user handbook.
This includes the link:/doc/book/installing/[installation guides], link:/doc/book/pipeline/[Pipeline documentation], and link:/doc/book/pipeline/syntax/[Pipeline syntax].
Refer to the link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/issues/6310[GitHub issue] for additional information and insight.

== Background

Debian 12 was released on June 10, 2023, and it no longer delivers OpenJDK 11.
Due to this change in Debian, we have transitioned to using Java 17 in the documentation.
The idea is this will encourage users to upgrade to Java 17, which has been fully supported since September 2022.
Aligning with the actively supported Java version will also help prevent user confusion or frustration when trying to follow installation and usage guides.

> == Advantages of Java 17
> 
> Java 17 improves upon Java 11 by including several new features that were not previously available.
> Java 17 provides more functional testing and tools to help users improve their workflow and capabilities.
> Including features that provide more extensive development options, such as:
> 
> * link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/text-blocks/index.html[Text blocks]
> * link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/406[Pattern matching for switch expressions]
> * link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/409[Sealed classes]
> * link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/jdk.incubator.foreign/jdk/incubator/foreign/package-summary.html[Foreign memory access]
> * link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/java.base/java/time/Period.html[Day period support]
> * link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/java.base/java/text/CompactNumberFormat.html[Compact number formatting support]
> Read more about these features and how they can be used in the link:https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase/17-relnote-issues.html[Java 17 release notes].
> 

Reviewer 2: I'd remove the list of Java 17 advantages because they are unlikely to benefit Jenkins users.  They may benefit Jenkins maintainers, but they are not the primary audience for the blog post.

The list is impressive (more than I realized), but it is a developer centered list rather than a user centered list.
```suggestion
```

Author: that makes total sense @MarkEWaite, I'll remove the list in that case. Thanks for the insight!

== Upgrading your Java version

While updating the documentation to reflect Java 17 support, we also added instructions on link:/doc/administration/requirements/upgrade-java-to-17/[upgrading Jenkins' Java version from 11 to Java 17].
This page includes a video walkthrough created by author:darinpope[Darin Pope] that guides users through the process of upgrading the Java version for Jenkins.

> As always, update all installed plugins prior to _and_ after updating Jenkins in any way.

Reviewer 2: Last phrase seems unnecessary.
```suggestion
As always, update all installed plugins prior to _and_ after updating Jenkins.
```
